DOCKER.md, before:

# LaserWeb (4.1.x) Docker Builds

Docker user targets:
- release
- dev

## Release
You can run the release version of the app in Docker using the commands below.
- build release image:
```
docker build --target release -t laserweb4:release .
```
- run image:
```
docker run -it --device=/dev/ttyUSB0 --rm -p 8000:8000 laserweb4:release
```
- connect to app: http://localhost:8000

## Dev (development snapshot)
You can run the current developement version of the app in Docker using the commands below.
- build development image:
```
docker build --target dev -t laserweb4:dev .
```
- run image:
```
docker run -it --device=/dev/ttyUSB0 --rm -p 8000:8000 laserweb4:release
```
- connect to app: http://localhost:8000

## Run in background
If you add `-d` to the docker run command it will start the container in detached mode.
You can use `docker logs -f <uuid>` to follow the output of this.

## Clean build
If you plan to release the docker build it is suggested you clean the dist folder first:
`rm dist/* && git checkout dist`

Commit message:

Remove start-server target and use node directly

DOCKER.md, after:

# LaserWeb (4.1.x) Docker Builds

This guide assumes some familiarity with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/), if you are new to Docker please start at: https://docs.docker.com/get-started/

Docker user targets:
- release
- dev

## Release

**Warning:** Bundling the release version here is inefficient, lots of additional data and dependencies are copied but not used.

You can run the release version of the app in Docker using the commands below.
- build release image:
```
docker build --target release -t laserweb4:release .
```
- run image:
```
docker run -it --device=/dev/ttyUSB0 --rm -p 8000:8000 laserweb4:release
```
- connect to app: http://localhost:8000

## Dev (development snapshot)
You can run the current developement version of the app in Docker using the commands below.
- build development image:
```
docker build --target dev -t laserweb4:dev .
```
- run image:
```
docker run -it --device=/dev/ttyUSB0 --rm -p 8000:8000 laserweb4:release
```
- connect to app: http://localhost:8000

## Run in background
If you add `-d` to the docker run command it will start the container in detached mode.
You can use `docker logs -f <uuid>` to follow the output of this.

## Stopping
To list running docker containers use: `docker ps`
To stop the attached container use `docker stop <uuid>`

## Clean build
If you plan to release the docker build it is suggested you clean the dist folder first:
`rm dist/* && git checkout dist`
