README.md, before:

# LaserWeb (4.0.x)

This repository is a "development environment" - and no regular user would have to touch this at all (dont download the repo from here, use the Download links below)

## Download
Releases are made available on https://github.com/LaserWeb/LaserWeb4-Binaries/

## Documentation
For more documentation, go to the [Wiki](https://github.com/LaserWeb/LaserWeb4/wiki) or our website https://laserweb.yurl.ch

## Setup a development environment
First clone the project and then do the following:
```sh
cd LaserWeb4/
npm install -f package.json
npm run init-dev
```
You should have all of the files imported and all the libraries loaded up if that worked. All you need should be in the dist folder. You can serve up the dist folder like in this example
```sh
cd dist
python3 -m http.server 8000
```
or have node package manager serve up the project:
```sh
npm run start-dev
```


## Docker

- run image:
```sh
docker run -device=/dev/ttyUSB0 -p 8000:8000 joesantos/laserweb:latest
```
- connect to app: http://localhost:8000

### Development

Docker user targets:
- dev
- test

You can run the `dev` version of the app in Docker using the commands below.
- build `dev` image:
```sh
docker build --target dev -t laserweb:dev .
```
- run image:
```sh
docker run -it -device=/dev/ttyUSB0 --rm -p 8000:8000 laserweb:dev
```
- connect to app: http://localhost:8000

To build the release version:
```sh
docker build -f Dockerfile.release -t laserweb:release .
```

## Community
Please use the community forum on https://forum.makerforums.info/c/laserweb-cncweb for questions and support.
Please only report confirmed bugs on the git [Issues tab](https://github.com/LaserWeb/LaserWeb4/issues).

## Supported firmwares

Note: Ever changing. See the Issues tab above for details.

| Firmware                  | Supported  | Raster Performance  | CNC Support  |Pull Requests Accepted             |
| ------------------------- |------------|:-------------------:|:------------:|:---------------------------------:|
| Grbl > v1.1f (ATmega328)  | Yes        | Good                |   Great      | Yes - improvements                |
| Grbl-Mega (ATmega2560)    | Yes        | Good                |   Great      | Yes - improvements                |
| Grbl-LPC (LPC176x)        | Yes        | Great               |   Great      | Yes - improvements                |
| Grbl_ESP32 (ESP32)        | Yes        | Great               |   Great      | Yes - improvements                |
| Smoothieware              | Yes *      | Okayish             |   Okayish    | Yes - improvements                |
| TinyG                     | Yes        | Unknown             |   Good       | Yes - improvements                |
| Marlin                    | Yes        | Unknown             |   No         | Yes - improvements                | 
| MarlinKimbra              | Yes        | Unknown             |   No         | Yes - improvements                | 
| Repetier                  | Yes        | Unknown             |   No         | Yes - improvements                |
| RepRapFirmware            | Yes        | Unknown             |   Yes        | Yes - improvements                |

* If fast raster engraving is important for you, we recommend replacing Smoothieware with grbl-LPC (https://github.com/cprezzi/grbl-LPC) which also runs on the LPC1769 based boards and performs much faster for laser raster applications.

## Wishlist

If you want to contribute, below are long standing community-requested enhancements, that a) we don't have time to code or b) need extra skills

* GCODE Optimiser - to cut down on G0 moves (something like http://parano.github.io/GeneticAlgorithm-TSP/)
* Implement "Raster > TSP-Vector" operation
* More Controllers! Help us implement more firmwares (improve TinyG add Marlin/Repetier, etc)
* WebGL Transformation Filters to use Webcam to setup stock
* Automate Electron Builds for all platforms

## How to contribute ?

To set up a development environment see the Developer HowTo in the repo. Further details are on https://github.com/LaserWeb/LaserWeb4/wiki/How-to-Contribute

Commit message:

Let people know about the submodules in the README.md file.

README.md, after:

# LaserWeb (4.0.x)

This repository is a "development environment" - and no regular user would have to touch this at all (dont download the repo from here, use the Download links below)

## Download
Releases are made available on https://github.com/LaserWeb/LaserWeb4-Binaries/

## Documentation
For more documentation, go to the [Wiki](https://github.com/LaserWeb/LaserWeb4/wiki) or our website https://laserweb.yurl.ch

## Setup a development environment
First clone the project and then do the following:
```sh
cd LaserWeb4/
npm install -f package.json
npm run init-dev
```
You should have all of the files imported and all the libraries loaded up if that worked. All you need should be in the dist folder. You can serve up the dist folder like in this example
```sh
cd dist
python3 -m http.server 8000
```
or have node package manager serve up the project:
```sh
npm run start-dev
```
The .gitmodules file has references to submodules that are used. Edit it accordingly if you start working on the submodules.


## Docker

- run image:
```sh
docker run -device=/dev/ttyUSB0 -p 8000:8000 joesantos/laserweb:latest
```
- connect to app: http://localhost:8000

### Development

Docker user targets:
- dev
- test

You can run the `dev` version of the app in Docker using the commands below.
- build `dev` image:
```sh
docker build --target dev -t laserweb:dev .
```
- run image:
```sh
docker run -it -device=/dev/ttyUSB0 --rm -p 8000:8000 laserweb:dev
```
- connect to app: http://localhost:8000

To build the release version:
```sh
docker build -f Dockerfile.release -t laserweb:release .
```

## Community
Please use the community forum on https://forum.makerforums.info/c/laserweb-cncweb for questions and support.
Please only report confirmed bugs on the git [Issues tab](https://github.com/LaserWeb/LaserWeb4/issues).

## Supported firmwares

Note: Ever changing. See the Issues tab above for details.

| Firmware                  | Supported  | Raster Performance  | CNC Support  |Pull Requests Accepted             |
| ------------------------- |------------|:-------------------:|:------------:|:---------------------------------:|
| Grbl > v1.1f (ATmega328)  | Yes        | Good                |   Great      | Yes - improvements                |
| Grbl-Mega (ATmega2560)    | Yes        | Good                |   Great      | Yes - improvements                |
| Grbl-LPC (LPC176x)        | Yes        | Great               |   Great      | Yes - improvements                |
| Grbl_ESP32 (ESP32)        | Yes        | Great               |   Great      | Yes - improvements                |
| Smoothieware              | Yes *      | Okayish             |   Okayish    | Yes - improvements                |
| TinyG                     | Yes        | Unknown             |   Good       | Yes - improvements                |
| Marlin                    | Yes        | Unknown             |   No         | Yes - improvements                | 
| MarlinKimbra              | Yes        | Unknown             |   No         | Yes - improvements                | 
| Repetier                  | Yes        | Unknown             |   No         | Yes - improvements                |
| RepRapFirmware            | Yes        | Unknown             |   Yes        | Yes - improvements                |

* If fast raster engraving is important for you, we recommend replacing Smoothieware with grbl-LPC (https://github.com/cprezzi/grbl-LPC) which also runs on the LPC1769 based boards and performs much faster for laser raster applications.

## Wishlist

If you want to contribute, below are long standing community-requested enhancements, that a) we don't have time to code or b) need extra skills

* GCODE Optimiser - to cut down on G0 moves (something like http://parano.github.io/GeneticAlgorithm-TSP/)
* Implement "Raster > TSP-Vector" operation
* More Controllers! Help us implement more firmwares (improve TinyG add Marlin/Repetier, etc)
* WebGL Transformation Filters to use Webcam to setup stock
* Automate Electron Builds for all platforms

## How to contribute ?

To set up a development environment see the Developer HowTo in the repo. Further details are on https://github.com/LaserWeb/LaserWeb4/wiki/How-to-Contribute
